
"Eunice"

Chapter 1 - Game-wide setup


Include Basic Screen Effects by Emily Short.

Before listing nondescript items:
	if the tangle of vines is marked for listing:
		now the tangle of vines is not marked for listing;
		if the welcome mat is marked for listing:
			now the welcome mat is not marked for listing.

[
testing:
	
Include Property Checking by Emily Short.
Include Object Response Tests by Juhana Leinonen.
]

Section 1 - Bibliographic data

The story title is "Eunice".
The story author is "Gita Ryaboy".
The story headline is "An Interactive Fiction Adventure in Positive Psychology".
Story genre is "Magical Realism".
Release number is 1.
The story description is "Eunice is a shadow of its former glory.
Hope is lost, just a faint memory.
Whatever the reasons that brought you here,
That Eunice needs you, it is clear.
Type out simple commands, and
Look for changes in Eunice land.
Odd creatures and strange places require your aid.
You’ll get as much out as the efforts you made.

Practice Positive Psychology tools to bring back Hope to Eunice.".
The story creation year is 2018.

Release along with cover art ("Four landscapes: Study of Rocky Mountains, Bierstadt; The Forest Clearning, Shiskin; Patch of Grass, van Gogh; Boglands, AE; with the word 'Eunice' in the middle right."), an interpreter, and an introductory postcard.

When play begins:
	say "Fording seas of boredom, weathering storms of grief, and floods of anger, you have arrived. This game is an introduction to research-based Positive Psychology tools. For more information about playing this game, type ABOUT.[paragraph break]You look north, south, east, and west. There is something missing here, as if all of nature is just ... sort of ... going through the motions. Her heart isn't really in it.[paragraph break]Welcome to Eunice."
	
Understand "about" as a mistake ("In the past couple of decades, there has been a surge of psychological research into the type of questions usually reserved for sitting at the edge of the ocean on a gray day: How can I feel more joy? What does love mean? When am I truly fulfilling my purpose in life? This research has been grouped into the subfield of Positive Psychology. Data shows that some simple actions can improve mood, perspective, and resilience. There are now online courses, popular books, research journals, and yes, even games. [line break]Interactive fiction is especially suited to trying out something strange and new because it creates a space to experiment through play. This game is in a fantasy land, but the player is you, no one else, no mask or cloak or metaphor. You could consider this a trial run with new, psychological hiking gear, and afterward set off to explore your own vast and wild internal world. [line break]Or, don't have any intentions except playing. Either way, hopefully you enjoy exploring Eunice. I certainly enjoyed making it. I'm grateful for the experience and for the support from many people along the way. [line break]Type CREDITS to read about everyone who helped make this game possible.[line break]Type COMMANDS for a list of suggested instructions.[line break]Type HELP for a list of topics with more information.").

Understand "COMMANDS" as a mistake ("Try: LOOK, TAKE, INVENTORY, move in any direction, LOOK in any direction, and THANK.").

Understand "HELP" as a mistake ("You are very much on your own in Eunice, but luckily a few citizens put together a little RfQ (Request For Quest):[paragraph break]Adventurers, Wanderers, Gamers, Travelers, and Explorers Wanted! [line break]Eunice seeks players to free Hope from its prison. Should you take up this quest, you many want to know more about: Gratitude; Appreciation; Mindfulness; Flexibility").

Understand "Gratitude" as a mistake ("Practicing gratitude affirms the goodness in life. It can reduce depression and help solidify feelings of connection. There are many ways to do this. In Eunice, try going to Rocky Field and typing 'Today I am grateful for (something you really are grateful for today)'. Other Eunice citizens have written some notes, so you have a few examples. [paragraph break]Outside of Eunice, you can keep a journal by your bed and write three things at the end of the day you are thankful for. Sometimes people start out with basic material things, such as having a home, and can also include small or silly items, such as a well sharpened pencil. You can also write out how why you are grateful. Try it for a few days and see how you feel.")

Understand "APPRECIATION" as a mistake ("Connection with nature has been shown to decrease anxiety, depression, and increase well-being and even creativity. It can be a little weird to just start doing, especially if it wasn't a regular habit before. There are many ways to start. In Eunice, go to the Quaking Bog and carefully read the sign. [paragraph break]Outside of Eunice, close attention to nature is also beneficial, and you don't have to find a rare quaking bog to do it. Try going for a walk, watching dogs at the park, planting a window box in the spring, or collecting leaves in the fall.")

Understand "MINDFULNESS" as a mistake ("Mindfulness is the attempt to maintain moment-to-moment awareness of thoughts, emotions, physical sensations, and environment, and accepting whatever comes with a gentleness. It ain't easy. In Eunice, you can pratice mindful eating if you head to Grassland and climb the tree.[paragraph break] Outside of Eunice, you can practice mindfulness in many different ways. You can set a timer for 5 or 10 minutes to sit quietly and practicing accepting and then releasing any thoughts that come. It might be helpful to focus on your breathing and return to that sensation whenever you mind wanders. There are also many guided meditations available online.")

Understand "Flexibility" as a mistake ("There are many types of flexibility. Some in Eunice have become actual statues while others are imprisoned by their way of thinking. Of course, the best way to help is to work on flexiblity for yourself. Think about how you are positioned. Are your muscles tense? Have you been in the same position for more than half an hour? If so, take a few seconds to stretch. And after than, maybe explore the Pine Wood for a bit.")

Understand "CREDITS" as a mistake ("Thanks to my beta-testers: Oliver Frank, Ryan Houldin, Andrew Cantino, Marie Broadway, Jenny Brooks, Lillian Egloff, and most especially Dmitriy Ryaboy. This would be a collection of poorly written python functions without all of you, and I appreciate your time and contributions immensely.")

Section 2 - Map and Looking

The Front Yard is a room.
South of the Front Yard is a room called Meadowland. 
West of Front Yard is Pine Woods.
Plainfield is west of the Meadowland.
Plainfield is southwest of Front Yard.
Pine Woods is northwest of Meadowland. 
Grassland is south of Meadowland.

North of Plainfield is Pine Woods. 
West of Pine Woods is Pine Trail. 
North of Pine Trail is Steep Trail.
North of Steep Trail is Dark Valley.
Northwest of Dark Valley is Forest Glen.

Impenetrable Wood is a region. Pine Woods, Pine Trail, Steep Trail, Dark Valley, and Forest Glen are in Impenetrable Wood.

Pietra is a region. Plainfield, Rocky Field and Dusty Field are in Pietra.
The Rocky Field is west of Dusty Field. 
Dusty Field is west of Plainfield.

South of the Front Yard is a room called Meadowland.  
Sward is a region. Meadowland and Grassland are in Sward.

East of the Front Yard is a room called Quaking Bog. 
Quaking bog is northeast of Meadowland.
East of the Quaking Bog is a room called Bog Heart.
Marsh is a region. Quaking Bog and Bog Heart are in Marsh.

Understand "look [direction]" as facing.

Facing is an action applying to one visible thing.

Carry out facing:
	let the viewed item be the room noun from the location;
	if the viewed item is not a room, say "[if player is in Tree Crown] From this height you can see the far horizon. Eunice is waiting for you. [otherwise]You feel a vague sense of emptiness, as if you had reached the boundaries of a humble world, and take it as a sign that your exploring would be better spent in a more productive way." instead;
	try looking toward the viewed item.

[In rules about action handling, "noun" refers to the first object that the player has mentioned in his command, so if the player typed >LOOK WEST, "let the viewed item be the room noun from the location" would be processed as "let the viewed item be the room west from the location", and so on.]

[We can at need override the default behavior, if it is not going to be appropriate for the player to see the next room over. There is only sky above at any time, so...]

Instead of facing up:
	say "Above you the gray-green sky gives off only a pale light, as if just before a thunder storm.".

Instead of facing down:
	say "You see your feet ready and waiting for instructions.".
	
Understand "look toward [any adjacent room]" as looking toward. Understand "examine [any adjacent room]" as looking toward.

Looking toward is an action applying to one visible thing.

Carry out looking toward:
	say "You make out [the noun] that way."

[This design allows us to create descriptions for rooms (as seen from the outside) which will work regardless of where we're looking from. For instance:]

Instead of looking toward Dusty Field:
	say "You can make out[if player carries origami bird] an open field with a bit of green as if the first bulbs of spring were pushing up to the light [otherwise] a barren field with shadowy peaks in the distance.".
	
Instead of looking toward Rocky Field:
	say "[if player carries origami bird]Looking west, the wide field is bare except for a large notice board beneath the great mountains. From here you just make out the colorful squares of gratitude notes pinned on the board. [otherwise] You can make out something dark and square in the field to the west. Beyond that, towering mountains rise up dominating the scene. ".
	
Instead of looking toward Front Yard:
	say "[if player carries the flute] You can make out the remnants of a beautiful garden now that the plants have room breathe. [otherwise] The yard has piles of trash covering the sad remnants of an old garden.".
	
Instead of looking toward Plainfield:
	say "[if wildflowers are nowhere]You inspect a rather unremarkable field.[otherwise]You look towards a large, wide field.".
	
Instead of looking toward Pine Woods:
	say "The dark forest is as solid and consistent as a wall. Yet, as you look you can see a break in the trees where the path into the woods begins.".
	
Instead of looking toward Pine Trail:
	say "The path quickly disappears into the shadows.".
	
Instead of looking toward Steep Trail:
	say "The path quickly disappears into the shadows.".
	
Instead of looking toward Dark Valley:
	say "The path quickly disappears into deep shadows.".

Instead of looking toward Forest Glen:
	say "The trees open into a small glen [if the stone of flexibility is nowhere] of prickly grasses that give you an itchy feeling just looking at them and some sort of statues[otherwise] of soft green grass and a group chatting comfortably.".
	
Instead of looking toward Grassland:
	say "[if player carries seeds]Rolling grasses carry your gaze along [otherwise] Dry grasses scrape unpleasantly before [end if]. In the distance you see a great old tree.".
	
Instead of looking toward Meadowland:
	say "[if the hammock is nowhere]It is a gentle meadow though feels oddly empty right now.[otherwise]You see a gentle meadow with a wide, comfortable hammock.".
	
Instead of looking toward Quaking Bog:
	say "Moss and thick marsh grasses grow in the bog.".
	
Instead of looking toward the Bog Heart:
	say "You see bog plants all around beneath with wide sky. The ground quakes slightly with each footfall. Who knows what treasures lie below the deep moss...".  

Instead of looking toward the Front Porch:
	say "The front porch of the old house is rotten and slanting at quite an angle.".
	
Instead of examining the player: say "You look different in the Eunice light. A little more weather-beaten, a little darker from the sun, a little stronger from the walking, you look like an adventurer. [line break]You look like you have grit.".

	
Section 3 - Taking and Thanking

Instead of taking some scenery: say "Sometimes you can't take it with you. This is one of those times." 

Understand "thank [something]" as thanking. Thanking is an action applying to one thing.

Report thanking:
	if the noun is the toad, say "[if awake]He nods his wide head. And if he had a bowler hat, he would have touched the brim as a jaunty 'you're welcome'. But things aren't as they should be in Eunice.[otherwise]He lets out a terrific snore.";
		if the noun is the group chatting, say "They smile and in return thank you again for freeing them.[line break]'It is much more comfortable to be out of that cramped chair.' somebody says, and does a cartwheel that nearly misses toppling a few others over, 'and more exciting!'";
			if the noun is the elf, say "[if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]The elf gives you a shy smile.[otherwise]'What for?' the elf asks suspiciously, and turns away for the moment.";
				if the noun is the snake, say "'SSSSssssssss' saysss the ssnake.'";
					if noun is the troll, say "He nods awkwardly, unused to thanks.";
	otherwise:
		say "The [noun] receives your thanks like sunlight, in this gloomy land."

Section 4 - Conversation and Characters

[ASLEEP/AWAKE]
A person can be asleep or awake. 

Instead of waking an awake person: say "That seems redundant."

Instead of waking an asleep person: say "It does seem like the thing to do, but how?"

A person can be agitated or calm.

Understand "talk to [someone]" as a mistake ("'Eunice has very particular conversational etiquette. You can ASK [noun] ABOUT something; TELL [noun] ABOUT something; or ANSWER something to [noun].").

[scene rules - related to conversations]

A scene can be restricted or free.

Instead of going somewhere while a restricted scene is happening:
	if the restricted scene is Stuckin:
		say "You are stuck in the mud. There isn't any Hope in Eunice. Here especially you can feel the loss pulling at you, weighing you down. The hopelessness chills your bones as the cold water rises against your skin.";
	otherwise:
		say "Better to stay here for the moment and find out what is going to happen next."

Instead of going nowhere while a restricted scene is happening:
	if the restricted scene is Stuckin:
		say "You are stuck in the mud. There isn't any Hope in Eunice. Here especially you can feel the loss pulling at you, weighing you down. The hopelessness chills your bones as the cold water rises against your skin.";
	otherwise:
		say "Better to stay here for the moment and find out what is going to happen next."

[SUBJECTS OF CONVERSATION]

A subject is a kind of thing. 

Understand "ask [someone] about [any subject]" as asking it about the subject. 
Understand "tell [someone] about [any subject]" as asking it about the subject.
Understand "tell [someone] [any subject]" as asking it about the subject.


Asking it about the subject is an action applying to one thing and one visible thing.

Carry out asking it about the subject:
	if the noun is the elf, say "[if the stone of flexibility is in mailbox]'Sounds interesting. Haven't got the foggiest idea about [the second noun],' replies the elf, 'I'm just a tiny elf in a mailbox, after all.'[otherwise]'Bah, [the second noun],' the elf yells, again. The elf is very yell-y. [line break]Who knew elves would be so screechy.";
		if the noun is the toad, say "[if toad is awake]'I'd rather talk about bog politics than the [the second noun],' says [the noun], 'and I hate politics'.[otherwise]The toad stirs. His left eye opens a fraction of a sixteenth of an inch, then closes again. He lets out a terrific snore.";
			if the noun is the group chatting, say "A few people begin to chat about [the second noun] while others do somersaults.";
				if the noun is the troll, say "'[the second noun]' says the Troll, 'hhrrrmmmm' then he seems to forget what you were talking about.";
					if the noun is the snake, say "'SSSSssssssss' saysss the ssnake."

Instead of thinking:
	say "You contemplate the strange land where you find yourself."

Quest is a subject. 
Treasure is a subject. Understand "treasures" as treasure. 
Hope is a subject. 
Stone is a subject. Understand "stone of flexibility" as stone.
Eunice is a subject. 
Jokes are a subject. Understand "joke" as jokes. 
Key is a subject. Understand "key of appreciation" as key. 
Riddle is a subject.


Chapter 3 - Necessary Items

The flute is a thing. The description is "The little flute is simply carved. In the right moment it will play the SONG of ORDER.".
The flute is nowhere.

An origami bird is a thing. The description is "An expertly folded paper bird, the GIFT of GRATITUDE. The colors seem to change slightly in the Eunice light, but you think its blue. You remember your [text of the text file of the pad]". The origami bird is nowhere.

The house key is a thing. The description of the house key is "One of the five treasures: the KEY of APPRECIATION! It's a house key. The key is heavy brass and old fashioned. It rests solidly in your hand." The house key is nowhere. 

A stone of flexibility is a thing. The description of the stone of flexibility is "The STONE of FLEXIBILITY is gray with little black specs. At this moment, it is [one of]just a round stone[or]long and narrow like a stick[or]an oval rock[or]a little spoon[or]squarish[at random].". The stone of flexibility is nowhere. 

Some seeds are a thing. The description is "Some little brown SEEDS of MINDFULNESS that came from the apple you ate. [paragraph break] You remember holding it with full awareness of the weight in your hand, appreciating the smell and colors of the fruit. You imagined what it took for this to get to your hands: sunshine, water, warmth, and time. You felt the fruit against your teeth and you took the first bite. After chewing, you noticed the first burst of flavor and how it gradually faded. Paying attention fully as if it were your first time ever eating an apple. [line break]Very slowly chewing, appreciating the change in texture and taste, you finished the apple and felt completely sated." Some seeds are nowhere.

An iridescent fly is a kind of a thing. An iridescent fly is edible. The description
of the iridescent fly is "Reflecting luminous colors, it is dead and rather large, about the size of a cracker.". There is one iridescent fly in Paraphernalia Limbo.

The waterwell is container. "There is a clear pool of water near the toad's forelimb." The description of the waterwell is "Very clear and very deep..." The waterwell is nowhere. Understand "pool", "well", "water" as waterwell.

The tangle of vines is a closed and locked openable door. The tangle of vines is north of the Front Yard and south of the Front Porch.

The description of the tangle of vines is "[if the tangle of vines is open]The tangle of vines form leafy green steps north to the front porch[otherwise]There aren't any steps, just a missing space where they should have been.". Understand "step", "steps", "stair" and "stairs" as tangle of vines.

Chapter 4 - Utensils and Baking

A round tin is a thing. A round tin is in the Dusty Field. The initial appearance is "A round tin rests on the Dusty Field, looking very out of place.". The description of the round tin is "A round metal tin, nine inches in diameter.".

Before taking the round tin:
	if the flute is nowhere: 
		say "You reach down to retrieve the round tin, but no matter how hard you pull it won't come up from the dusty field. Assuredly it doesn't belong, but it seems that other things need to be taken care of before you can return the tin to its rightful place, wherever that might be." instead.
		
After taking the round tin, say "You reach down and easily pick up the round tin. Though you aren't sure where it belongs, there are so many strange inhabitants in Eunice maybe a dancing rabbit needs a stage somewhere.".

A measuring cup is a thing. A measuring cup is in the Steep Trail. The initial appearance is "A measuring cup lies at the side of the path, looking very out of place.". The description of the measuring cup is "The cup is simply made and has a marking of '1 cup' on the side."

Before taking the measuring cup:
	if the flute is nowhere: 
		say "You reach down to retrieve the measuring cup, but no matter how hard you pull it won't come up from the steep trail. Assuredly it doesn't belong, but it seems that other things need to be taken care of before you can return the cup to its rightful place, wherever that might be." instead.
	
After taking the measuring cup, say "You reach down and easily pick up the measuring cup. Though you aren't sure where it belongs, there are so many strange inhabitants of Eunice, maybe a cat needs a hat somewhere.".
		
A spatula is a thing. A spatula is in the Grassland. The initial appearance is "A spatula rests on some grass, looking very out of place.". The description of the spatula is "It is bright purple and made of semi-flexible silicone."

Before taking the spatula:
	if the flute is nowhere: 
		say "You reach down to retrieve the spatula, but no matter how hard you pull it won't come up from the grassland. Assuredly it doesn't belong, but it seems that other things need to be taken care of before you can return the spatula to its rightful place, wherever that might be." instead.
		
After taking the spatula, say "You reach down and easily pick up the spatula. Though you aren't sure where it belongs, there are so many strange inhabitants of Eunice, maybe a seafaring mouse needs a paddle somewhere.".
		
A whisk is a thing. A whisk is in the Meadowland. The initial appearance is "A whisk lies on the meadowland, looking very out of place.". The description of the whisk is "Clean curves of metal, the whisk looks very useful for whisking things."

Before taking the whisk:
	if the flute is nowhere: 
		say "You reach down to retrieve the whisk, but no matter how hard you pull it won't come up from the meadowland. Assuredly it doesn't belong, but it seems that other things need to be taken care of before you can return the whisk to its rightful place, wherever that might be." instead.
		
After taking the whisk, say "You reach down and easily pick up the whisk. Though you aren't sure where it belongs, someone always needs a whisk somewhere.".

Cake is an edible thing. Cake is nowhere. The initial appearance is "A beautifully frosted and perfectly baked cake sitting atop an overturned round tin on the floor the Old House. Almost half is already gone and a few moist crumbs lie scattered around it."

Instead of smelling the cake, say "It smells of creamed sugar, browned butter, and birthdays.".

Instead of eating the cake, say "Since there isn't a dessert plate or a cake serving set handy, you wipe your hand on your pants and, as genteelly as possible, take a handful of pink frosted cake.[paragraph break]You remember mindfully eating the apple and again pause just one moment before taking a first bite, smelling the treat and even enjoying the feel of cake in your hand.[paragraph break]Then you take a bite. It is sweet and buttery and still warm from the oven. You imagined what it took for this to get to your hands: from growing the wheat and sugar cane to waiting while the troll frosted the layers. You notice the first burst of flavor and how it gradually fades at the end of each mouthful; paying attention fully as if it were your first time ever eating cake. [line break]Very slowly chewing, appreciating the change in texture and taste, you finished the handful and felt completely satisfied".

Chapter 5 - Front Yard

The description of the Front Yard is "Around you [if flute is nowhere]is a neglected garden. Where once a caring hand tended bushes and plants, now trash covers the garden. No one is left to tend it now.[otherwise]the garden is beginning to return to life. The rose bush has tiny pink buds, preparing to become flowers soon.[end if][line break]Just north of you is an old, wooden house. At one time it was a dearly loved home, a place of comfort and laughter. Now it stands silent. "

The Front Yard contains bushes. The bushes are scenery. Understand "plants", "rose", "lavender", and "garden", "bush", "plant", "leaf", "leaves", "buds", "yard" as bushes. The description of bushes is "[if flute is nowhere]You look closer and recognize ragged lavender and a tired rose. The plants have withered at the stem before ever blooming. Brown and gray, they are barely surviving among the junk left in the yard.[otherwise]The bushes and plants are green with life. You notice a rose bush with blush-pink buds, and not far away lavender scents the air.".

Instead of smelling the bushes, say "Your nose notices a smell that is [if the flute is nowhere]mostly just dry.[otherwise]fragrant and flowery."

Instead of searching bushes, say "They are more in need of some tending than searching.".

Trash is scenery in the front yard. Understand "junk" as trash. The description of trash is "[if the flute is nowhere]Some old junk lies abandoned in the garden.[otherwise] The debris is organized into piles and cleared from the plants." 

Instead of going northwest in Front Yard:
	say "The old house blocks your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Front Yard:
	say "The old house blocks your way.".
	
Instead of going southeast in Front Yard:
	say "You start to wander southeast into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
The dark trees are a backdrop in the Front Yard. The description is "The trees seem to crowd in together as if they were keeping a secret. It is too dark to discover much from here." Understand "trees" and "tree" as dark trees.

The cabin is a backdrop in the Front Yard. The description is "The old wooden house is small and square. From out here, you can tell there is likely only one room inside. The front porch is rotting and slants away from the house, but the walls are strong. It looks as if someone just left it to fall into disrepair.". Understand "porch", "old house", "house", "home" and "wooden house" as cabin.

Section 1 - Tending

[Action for cleaning/clearing/TENDING the garden] 
Understand "tend [something]" as tending it. Tending it is an action applying to one thing. 
Check tending it: if the noun is not the bushes, say "There is no clear way to tend it exactly." instead. 
Report tending it: 
	say  "You heft some of the larger pieces of trash to the side. Then you clear the dead leaves, dropping them on the ground for mulch cover to soak in the rain when it comes. As you clear and organize, your thoughts settle. Each thing in its place, simply and easily.[paragraph break]Soothing lavender sways in the breeze, now that the garden has been tended. Fragrant plants cover the ground. The rose bush is budding and will flower soon. [if the flute is nowhere][paragraph break]You find a little flute among the trash, like a gift from the garden. You decide to keep it for later.[otherwise]There aren't any more musical instruments to be found, but a faint perfume scents the air. ";
	if the flute is nowhere:
		now player carries flute.
	
Understand "weed garden" as a mistake ("Weeding won't really help.").
 
[Action for flute]
Understand "play [something]" as playing it. Playing it is an action applying to one thing. 

Check playing it: if the noun is not the flute, say "Playing only works for a musical instrument." instead. 
	
Carry out playing it: if the flute is not carried by the player, silently try taking the flute;
		
Report playing it:
	say "You place the little flute to your lips and blow a few experimental notes. The sound is soft and a little melancholy."; 
	if the steamer trunk is in the Old House: 
		say "[if the snake is in the Front Yard]The snake's little geometric head pops up in the open window, enjoying your playing for a bit, before going back to napping in the front yard.[otherwise]The snake waves its head side to side as you play, turning jeweled eyes to you, and flicking his delicate tongue. Then he wiggles from off the steamer trunk and through the open window out into the perfumed garden.";
		now the snake is in the Front Yard.

Section 2 - Flowerpot

[The cracked flowerpot is south of the Front Porch and north of the Front Yard. The cracked flowerpot is a closed door. It is lockable and locked. Some seeds unlocks the cracked flowerpot. The description of the cracked flowerpot is "[if tangle of vines are nowhere]It is dusty, cracked and mostly filled with dirt. It rests against the front porch where stairs used to be. Those stairs are gone completely now, either torn up by some strong arm or simply rotted away. [otherwise]The old flower pot is holding a large plant of tangle of vines that form the front porch stairs."
]

The cracked flowerpot is an open unopenable container in the Front Yard. 

The description of the cracked flowerpot is "[If the tangle of vines is open]The cracked flowerpot and tangle of vines forming the stairs give the rundown front porch a whimsical, yet stylish look. You can almost imagine someone waving their hands and murmuring 'shabby-chic' breathily.[otherwise]It is dusty, cracked. It rests against the front porch where stairs used to be. Those stairs are gone completely now, either torn up by some strong arm or simply rotted away. "

The initial appearance of the flowerpot is "[if the tangle of vines is open]There is a cracked flowerpot leaning against the old house. A tangle of great, green vines is growing up to form stairs of the front porch.[otherwise]The porch of the old house ends abruptly as the stairs have rotted away beyond all use. There is a cracked flowerpot leaning against the old house.".

Instead of taking the flowerpot:
	say "It seems to be serving its intended purpose just where it is, thank you."

Understand "pot" as flowerpot.

Understand "plant [something]" as planting it. Planting it is an action applying to one thing. 
	
Check planting it: 
	if the noun is not some seeds, say "You considered it but the [noun] won't grow." instead;
		if player is not in Front Yard, say "The seeds are waiting for a different purpose." instead. 

Report planting it: say "You gently plant the seeds in the cracked flowerpot. [line break] Quickly, tendrils sprout in the dirt. They grow into strong tangle of vines, twisting and turning around each other until they form stairs north to the porch."; 
	now some seeds are nowhere;
	now the tangle of vines is unlocked;
	now the tangle of vines is open.

After inserting some seeds into the flowerpot:
	say "You gently plant the seeds in the cracked flowerpot. [line break] Quickly, tendrils sprout in the dirt. They grow into strong tangle of vines, twisting and turning around each other until they form stairs north to the porch.";
	now some seeds are nowhere; 
	now the tangle of vines are unlocked;
	now the tangle of vines are open.

Instead of going north in Front Yard when the tangle of vines is locked: say "You can't walk up the stairs. They have rotted beyond all use.".

Before going north in Front Yard when the tangle of vines is unlocked: say "You walk gingerly up the green vine stairs.".



Section 3 - Note

The tattered note is a thing in the Front Yard. "A tattered note flutters, caught in one of the nearby bushes." The note is fixed in place. The description is "The note reads: [paragraph break]Eunice is a shadow of its former glory.[line break]Hope is lost, just a faint memory[line break]Whatever the reasons that brought you here,[line break]That Eunice needs you, it is clear. [line break]Type out simple commands, and[line break]Notice the changes in Eunice land.[line break]Odd creatures and strange places require your aid.[line break]You'll get as much out as the efforts you made." 


Instead of doing something other than examining to the note, say "It's a tired, tattered piece of paper not good for anything but reading."

Chapter 6 - Pine Woods

Needles are a backdrop in the Impenetrable Wood. The description of the needles is "The straight towering pine trees rise darkly above you. Decades of dropped pine needles thickly cover the path. Their strong scent hands in the air.".

Path is a backdrop in the Impenetrable Wood. The description of the path is "Created for sunny morning jaunts, mid afternoon strolls, or even an early evening perambulation, this path was once easy and comfortable. But the harsh loss of Hope has left the path forsaken as well. No one has come here for a long time.".

Instead of smelling the needles, say "You bring your nose close to the pine needles and inhale deeply. The scent of pine fills your lungs. You inhale deeply for a count of 5, pausing for a moment at the top of your inhale:[paragraph break]1[paragraph break]2[paragraph break]3[paragraph break]4[paragraph break]5[paragraph break]Exhale completely, feeling refreshed.".

Understand "pine needles", "pines", "trees", "wood", "woods", "tree", and "pine" as needles.

Pine Woods has the description "The dark pine wood is a solid wall. Yet, as you look you can see a break in the trees where a path of pine needles leads west deeper into the wood or south to an open field.".

Before going west in Pine Woods, say "You walk on with determination toward the light up ahead.".

Instead of going north in Pine Woods:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northwest in Pine Woods:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Pine Woods:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southwest in Pine Woods:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Chapter 7 - Pine Trail

Pine Trail has the description "Your footfalls are silent in the thick carpet of pine needles. [line break]Sunlight quickly disappears, unable to penetrate through the wood. The path curves here and leads north or to the east."

Before going north in Pine Trail, say "Like the brave explorers of old, you move through the quiet dimness.".

Instead of going south in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going west in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northwest in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southwest in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southeast in Pine Trail:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Chapter 8 - Steep Trail

Steep Trail has the description "The ground changes elevation drastically here, making your hike considerable harder. The pines press in around you. The path leads north or south."

Before going north in Steep Trail, say "With resolve and determination, you press on.".

Instead of going west in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going east in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northwest in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northeast in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going southwest in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going southeast in Steep Trail, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".


Chapter 9 - Dark Valley

Dark Valley has the description "The pines have blocked all light and you can hardly see the trail. The comparative darkness halts your progress for a moment. [line break]There is some light off to the northwest and the south.".

Before going northwest in Dark Valley, say "You move forward out of the darkness and into a bright light.".

Instead of going north in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going east in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going west in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northeast in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going southwest in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going southeast in Dark Valley, say "The forbidding trees block your way.".


Chapter 10 - Forest Glen

Forest Glen has the description "A ray of sunshine cuts through the curtain of pines onto the path before you. The dense wood opens to a small glen of [if group chatting are nowhere]prickly grass[otherwise]soft grass. The sun shines strongly in the glen creating a little circle of bright against the dark forest." 

Grass is scenery in the Forest Glen. Grass has the description "[if the group chatting are nowhere] itchy and uncomfortable[otherwise]soft and inviting.". Understand "prickly grass" as grass.

Instead of smelling the grass, say "[if the group chatting is nowhere]Even for all your sniffing efforts, it doesn't smell like much[otherwise]There is a faint green scent, but more strongly you smell someone brewing tea somewhere."

The group chatting are plural-named. Understand "people" as the group chatting.
The group chatting are nowhere. The description is "[one of]The people who were statues are now enjoying the warm sun[or]The group has created a happy little party[or]People are chatting and sipping tea[or]Some people have unfolded blankets and are stretched out in the sun[or]A few have organized a drum circle[or]Moving easily though poses that could be yoga or tai chi, some people go through a routine together[or]Some are sitting together sipping tea on the soft grass, while others continue a coordinated poses of graceful stretches[at random]."

The initial appearance of the group chatting is "[one of]The people who were statues are now enjoying the warm sun[or]The group chatting has created a happy little party[or]Some people are chatting and sipping tea[or]Some people have unfolded blankets and are stretched out in the sun[or]The group chatting has organized a drum circle[or]Moving easily though poses that could be yoga or tai chi, some people go through a routine together[or]Some are sitting together sipping tea on the soft grass, while others continue a coordinated poses of graceful stretches[at random]."

Instead of smelling the group, say "You notice the faint smell of tee tree oil and sweat, similar to a yoga studio when class has finished.".

Instead of taking the group chatting, say "That clearly isn't possible.".

Instead of going north in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going west in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going east in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northeast in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northwest in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going south in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southwest in Forest Glen:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	

Section 1 - Statues stretching

carved statues are things in the Forest Glen. "A dozen carved statues are placed around the little glen. They are worn and covered in lichen, bird droppings, and fallen leaves." The carved statues have the description "The sculptures are all of people hunched over and staring at a small rectangles in their hands. Some are curled over themselves in office chairs. 

Looking at them life-like and lifeless, frozen in various pretzel positions, makes you want to loosen your limbs."

Instead of rubbing the statues, say "You brush off some dirt and leaves. They are very realistically carved. Each one looks like it could be a real person captured in stone.". 

Instead of taking carved statues, say "Each one is about your size and made of stone, much too heavy to take.".
	
Understand "stretch" as stretching. Stretching is an action applying to nothing. Understand "dance" as stretching. Understand "loosen limbs" as stretching.

Check stretching: 
	if player is in Forest Glen:
		say "Lift your shoulders up to your ears. Feel the muscles tense. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]Stretch your shoulders back as far as is comfortable, pushing your sternum forward and take a deep breath. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]Raise your arms over your head and feel your sides stretch. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
		wait for any key;
		say "[if the stone of flexibility is nowhere]The stone statues are cracking.The figures come to life. They brush the dust and rocks off of themselves. Everyone is hugging and laughing and chattering. 'Hello,' they say, 'it's been so long! Good to see you,' they celebrate. They notice you and bring you into the circle. [line break]Many hands pat you on the back, thanking you. [paragraph break]One gives you a little stone that broke off from his elbow.[paragraph break] [otherwise]The happy group notices you stretching and jumps to join in. After a smiling round of calisthenics, the group noisily wishes you, 'Good luck on your quest to free hope in Eunice!'. Then they go back to their own stretches or sipping tea, and you remember your mission.";
		now the player carries the stone of flexibility;
		now the carved statues are nowhere;
		now the group chatting is in the Forest Glen;
	otherwise:
		say "Lift your shoulders up to your ears. Feel the muscles tense. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]Stretch your shoulders back as far as is comfortable, pushing your sternum forward and take a deep breath. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]Raise your arms over your head and feel your sides stretch. [line break]Then release. [paragraph break]...[paragraph break] Ahhh, that felt good."

Section 2 - Party Convo
	
Instead of asking the group about the subject hope:
	say "'What happened to Hope?' you venture to ask. [paragraph break]The party falls silent for a surprising moment. Then someone says in a half whisper, 'Only the troll knows.' The group won't talk anymore about that."	

Instead of asking the group about the subject quest:
	say "They congregate around you in excitement, 'a quest sounds wonderful and you already have the stone, so clearly doing pretty well.'".

Instead of asking the group about the subject treasure:
	say "'There are a bunch, four...no, five' the group is shouting out answers as they try to remember. [line break]Finally, there is some intense whispering and they organize the list: a song of order, a key of deep appreciation, some seeds of mindfulness, a gift of gratitude, and a stone of flexibility. 'You already have the stone at least!'".

Instead of asking the group about the subject stone:
	say "'This is a strange stone,' you observe, looking at it. Before your eyes it changes momentarily into a donut shape, then back to a circle. [line break]'It's our gift to you, and it might be just the perfect thing,' one of the group replies. Someone else adds, 'it is one of those treasures needed in the quest to free Hope.".
	
Instead of asking the group about the subject Eunice:
	say "The group has a lot to say about Eunice. [paragraph break]'Our beautiful, beautiful home...though it looks just awful now.' [line break]'That is only because Hope is trapped and we were frozen, but now we can move.' A few of them do headstands in the grass."


Chapter 11 - Plainfield

Mountains are a backdrop in Pietra. The description of mountains is "Tall and jagged, they look far off and faintly disapproving.". Understand "mountain" as mountains.

Instead of smelling mountains, say "[if player carries origami bird]You breathe deeply as a breeze of cool mountain air passes by.[otherwise]You only smell dust.". Understand "breeze" as mountains.

Prairie is a backdrop in Pietra. The description of prairie is "a wild prairie land stretching far, far out before you.".

The dark trees are a backdrop in the Pietra. The description is "The trees seem to crowd in together as if they were keeping a secret. It is too dark to discover much from here." Understand "trees" and "tree" as dark trees.

Wildflowers are things. wildflowers are nowhere. The initial appearance of wildflowers is "Wildflowers cover the field in glorious color". The description of wildflowers is "Some are just tiny dots of color, others grow clustered in towers or opened broad faces of brilliant color: blue sage and indigo, magenta, gold and violet.".

Understand "wildflower", "flowers" and "flower" as wildflowers.
Instead of smelling the wildflowers, say "sweet and a little peppery.".

Instead of taking wildflowers, say "You wander through the field gathering wildflowers. The petals kiss softly against your skin. [paragraph break]After a while, your foot catches on a ridge of dirt and you catch yourself before falling. Bending down, you notice a small round hole of some little animal's home. After peering for a moment into the cool darkness you stand again, not wanting to pry where you haven't been invited. [paragraph break]You walk on farther, discovering rocks and seed pods and animal tracks, and then losing them again in your rambling. [line break] A soft breeze smelling of [one of]water comes from the east[or]high mountain air comes from the west[at random] and you remember your quest. [paragraph break]The flowers that you gathered were lost on your exploring, but it is fine. The seeds you spread will grow to more flowers next year.".

Understand "pick wildflowers" as a mistake ("You wander through the field gathering wildflowers. The petals kiss softly against your skin. [paragraph break]After a while, your foot catches on a ridge of dirt and you catch yourself before falling. Bending down, you notice a small round hole of some little animal's home. After peering for a moment into the cool darkness you stand again, not wanting to pry where you haven't been invited. [paragraph break]You walk on farther, discovering rocks and seed pods and animal tracks, and then losing them again in your rambling. [line break] A soft breeze smelling of [one of]water comes from the east[or]high mountain air comes from the west[at random] and you remember your quest. [paragraph break]The flowers that you gathered were lost on your exploring, but it is fine. The seeds you spread will grow to more flowers next year.")

Plainfield has the description "[if player carries origami bird]A broad field or plain with nothing particularly distinguishing about it, except for the profusion of flowers[otherwise]A broad field or plain with nothing particularly distinguishing about it."

Instead of going northwest in Plainfield:
	say "The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southwest in Plainfield:
	say "You start to wander southwest into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".

Instead of going south in Plainfield:
	say "You start to wander south into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".

Instead of going southeast in Plainfield:
	say "You start to wander southeast into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back."

Chapter 12 - Dusty Field

Dusty Field has the description "The field [if player carries origami bird]has a hint of green as if the imposing mountains were pushing up spring with their toes. [otherwise]is mostly dust and grime beneath dark mountains looming to the west."

Instead of going north in Dusty Field:
	say "The dusty field ends at the edge of a dark wood. The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northwest in Dusty Field:
	say "The dusty field ends at the edge of a dark wood. The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Dusty Field:
	say "The dusty field ends at the edge of a dark wood. The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going south in Dusty Field:
	say "You start to wander south into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back."
	
Instead of going southwest in Dusty Field:
	say "You start to wander southwest into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back." 

Instead of going southeast in Dusty Field:
	say "You start to wander southeast into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".

Grime is scenery in Dusty field. The description is "hundreds of shades of tan dust cover everything.". Understand "dust" as grime.

Chapter 13 - Rocky Field

Section 1 - some rules
			
Instead of going west in Rocky Field:
	say "You walk on to explore west of the notice board in the field beneath rugged mountains. [line break]Suddenly you see what the shadow of the mountains had hidden: the land falls away in a steep cliff so deep that the bottom is hidden from view. You scramble back from the edge. There is no way to go farther west. With a pounding heart, you turn back to the notice board.".

Instead of going south in Rocky Field:
	say "You start to wander south into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going north in Rocky Field:
	say "The rocky field ends at the edge of a dark wood. The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Rocky Field:
	say "The rocky field ends at the edge of a dark wood. The forbidding trees block your way.".

Instead of going northwest in Rocky Field:
	say "You walk on to explore northwest of the notice board in the field beneath rugged mountains. [line break]Suddenly you see what the shadow of the mountains had hidden: the land falls away in a steep cliff so deep that the bottom is hidden from view. You scramble back from the edge. There is no way to go farther west. With a pounding heart, you turn back to the notice board.".

Instead of going southwest in Rocky Field:
	say "You walk on to explore southwest of the notice board in the field beneath rugged mountains. [line break]Suddenly you see what the shadow of the mountains had hidden: the land falls away in a steep cliff so deep that the bottom is hidden from view. You scramble back from the edge. There is no way to go farther west. With a pounding heart, you turn back to the notice board.".

Instead of going southeast in Rocky Field:
	say "You start to wander southeast into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	


Section 2 - setting up the room

Rocky Field has the description "You are in a broad, rocky field. Boulders are scattered haphazardly all around.[paragraph break]There is a large notice board clearly placed with more intention than the rocks. On the notice board is a pad of paper and a few notes.[if player carries Origami bird] The field looks slightly greener than before, as if spring is coming soon.[end if][line break]Farther west, tall mountains loom over you, threatening to overwhelm the scene.". 

The notice board is a supporter and scenery in the Rocky Field. The description of the notice board is "A large public notice board stands in the middle of the wide field. You wonder why the builder decided to put it out here, far from any road or town.  Clearly some people came here, because there are colorful notes stuck to the board, as well as a large pad of paper.[paragraph break] Carved into the top of the board are the words: [paragraph break]Simply type 'Today I am grateful for {your gratitude} ' on the pad. [line break] Peace, serenity, and groundedness are yours to be had."

A pad of paper, pinned notes, and boulders are scenery in the Rocky Field. 

The description of the pinned notes is "You pick one of the notes to read: [one of]'Today I am grateful for a warm cup of tea, house elves, catching up with an old friend'[or]'Today I am grateful for my children, a morning commute free from trolls and dragons, sunny weather'[or]'Today I am grateful for snuggling kittens, rollercoasters, chocolate'[or]'Today I am grateful for smiles from strangers, dragon gold, my job'[or]'Today I am grateful for a first date, pizza, my favorite show'[or]'Today I am grateful for new boots, shiny armor, next jousting competition'[or]'Today I am grateful for compliments from birds, fresh fruit, hearing my favorite song'[or]'Today I am grateful for picnics, loving family, silly jokes.' [in random order]."

Understand "note" as notes.

The description of boulders is "Heavy and oblong with weathered surfaces, they have been here a long time."

Understand "boulder", "rock", and "rocks" as boulders.
	
Section 3 - setting up writing in gratitude pad

[Writing Gratitude notes - calling the file 'gratitude' instead of jotter as in example. First setting up the file]

A gratitude is a kind of a thing. A gratitude has an external file called the text file. A gratitude can be fresh or used. A gratitude is usually fresh. A gratitude has a text called the heading.

The currently erased gratitude is an object that varies. 

To erase (pad - a gratitude): 
	now the currently erased gratitude is the pad;
	write "Gratitude List: [paragraph break]" to the text file of the pad;
	now the pad is fresh.
	
To write in (pad - a gratitude):
	append "[topic understood][line break]" to the text file of the pad;
	now the pad is used.
	
To read (pad - a gratitude):
	say "The pad of paper is titled 'Gratitude List: ' in shimmering in gold leaf. You review your list so far. [paragraph break][text of the text file of the pad]".
	
When play begins:
	repeat with pad running through gratitudes:
		erase the pad.
		
[Then setting up rules for reading writing and erasing]

Instead of examining a used gratitude (called the pad):
	read the pad.
	
Instead of examining a fresh gratitude (called the pad):
	say "The pad of paper is titled 'Gratitude List: ' in shimmering in gold leaf. The rest of the paper is inviting, ready to be typed in. "

Understand "Today I am grateful for [text] on [something]" as writing it in. Understand "Today I am grateful for [text]" as writing it in. Writing it in is an action applying to a topic and one thing. Rule for supplying a missing second noun while writing: if player is in Rocky Field, now the second noun is the pad; otherwise say "You are too far from a gratitude list to do that."


Check writing it in:
	if the second noun is not a gratitude, say "It would be better to write somewhere else."
	instead.
	
Carry out writing it in:
	if the player is in Rocky Field, write in the second noun; otherwise say "There are no writing materials here."
	
Report writing it in:
	say "You write '[the topic understood]' on [the second noun].".
	
After writing in the pad:
	say "You write '[the topic understood]' on [the second noun]. [line break]Take a moment and look at the words that you wrote. Let the memory of [the topic understood] soak in.";
	if Origami bird is nowhere:
		move the Origami bird to the player;
		now wildflowers are in the Plainfield;
		say "When you write your gratitude note, a tiny folded paper bird flutters down from above you and lands noiselessly in your hand. [line break]The field looks a little greener. [line break]The colorful gratitude notes posted on the board shine and twinkle.";
	otherwise:
		say "When you add your gratitude note, you notice other notes pinned on the board, written by people or animals before you. It almost seems like there are more than before. The colorful notes add a trendy, party atmosphere to the sign.[line break]".	

Understand "erase [something]" as erasing. Erasing is an action applying to one carried thing.

Check erasing:
	if the noun is not a gratitude, say "It's hard to see how." instead.
	
Carry out erasing:
	erase the noun.
	
Report erasing:
	say "You erase the gratitude notes in [the noun]."
	
[putting the general purpose implementation to use]
A gratitude called pad of paper is in the Rocky Field. The file of Player's Gratitudes is called "Gratitudes". The text file of pad of paper is the file of Player's Gratitudes. The heading of pad of paper is "Things I am Grateful For:"



Chapter 14 - Meadowland

Meadowland has the description "[if the house key is nowhere]The wind blows gently across the rolling meadow. This would be a sweet place to sit for an afternoon in a hammock and listen to the birds sing, except that there is no hammock and no birds singing.[otherwise]The wind blows gently across the rolling meadow. You can just make out the faint notes of far off birdsong, though you can see no birds here yet. This is a lovely spot to sit for a moment."

Instead of going southeast in Meadowland: say "The thick moss dissolves farther southeast into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going southwest in Meadowland: say "You start to wander south into the prairie, but without a way to navigate you would easily become lost. If that happened, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back."

A hammock is an enterable supporter. A hammock is nowhere. The description of the hammock is "[if the player is on the hammock] The hammock is wide and cozy. While looking it over, you notice a rustling beneath your left shoulder. Tipping the hammock slightly, you reach over and find a little scrap of paper that was hidden between the ropes of the hammock.[paragraph break]Someone has written:[line break]E.D. - 314[line break]W.W. - I Wndrd Lnl Cld[line break]M.O. - 133[paragraph break]'Hmm, this doesn't seem directly related to quest; yet I wonder what could it be?' you say outloud. [line break]Something to investigate later, you decide, and fold the note back into the hammock, leaving it hidden for the writer or for someone else to find someday.[otherwise]The hammock is wide and cozy.".

The initial appearance of the hammock is "A hammock sways slightly in the breeze."

Instead of taking the hammock, say "It is much too large and unwieldy. Besides, it is already in a perfectly lovely place."

Lying on it is an action applying to one thing. Understand "lie on [something]" as lying on it. 
Understand "lie on [something]" as entering.

Check lying on it: if the noun is not the hammock, say "On second thought, you decide against lying on [the noun]." instead.

Report lying on it: if the noun is the hammock, silently try entering the noun.

After entering the hammock: 
	say "You hold the hammock steady and climb awkwardly into it, thinking with some amusement that for all their comfort, hammocks are particularly uncomfortable to get into... But now you are lying down, every limb supported. Your skin warms in the sun. You are held and rocked gently. [line break]As you sway, looking up to the great wide sky of Eunice, you notice a rustling beneath your left shoulder. Tipping the hammock slightly, you reach over and find a little scrap of paper that was hidden between the ropes of the hammock.[paragraph break]Someone has written:[line break]E.D. - 314[line break]W.W. - I Wndrd Lnl Cld[line break]M.O. - 133[paragraph break]'Hmm, this doesn't seem directly related to quest; yet I wonder what could it be?' you say outloud. [line break]All this cuddling into the hammock has succeeded in making you rather sleepy. 'Something to investigate later,' you yawn, and fold the note back into the hammock, leaving it hidden for the writer or for someone else to find someday."


Instead of sleeping in Meadowland:
	if player is on hammock:
		say "You close your eyes for a moment. Thoughts that were loud and distracting become quiet. You can hear your breath grow deeper and more regular as you fall into a light sleep.[line break]Birds and insects make a sweet lullaby around you.[line break]After some unknown amount of time you wake to Eunice, remembering your quest. A line from a poem alights on your mind, 'Hope is the thing with feathers'. [line break]What could have reminded you of that?";
	otherwise:
		say "It might be nice if you had somewhere to nap. But it won't work while you are standing in a field."
	
Chapter 15 - Grassland

Section 1 - setting up the room

Grassland has the description "[if player carries seeds]Many grasses - wild oat, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass make up an ocean of green rolling around you. [otherwise]Dry rustling grasses surround you.".

Grasses are scenery in Grassland. The grasses have the description "All different sorts, some you recognize and some altogether unfamiliar. The grasses keep growing.".

A climbable tree is a kind of a door. A climbable tree is usually open. A climbable tree is seldom openable. 

The solitary tree is a climbable tree. The initial appearance is "[if player is in Grassland]The only thing breaking the continuity is a huge and gnarled tree, framed dark against the wide sky.[otherwise]The tree holds you high above Eunice in the palm of its dark branches."

The solitary tree has the description "The tree is dark against the gray-green of the sky and [if player carries seeds]many little leaves have grown. [otherwise]mostly bare, with only a few yellow leaves. [end if]The trunk is thick and twisted. Low branches create a wide crown on the horizon."

Climbing down it is an action applying to one thing.
Understand "climb down [something]" as climbing down it.
Understand "climb down [something]" as entering.


Check climbing down it: if the noun is not the solitary tree, say "Unclear how you would climb down [the noun] exactly." instead.

Report climbing down it: if the noun is the solitary tree, silently try entering the noun.

Instead of climbing the solitary tree:
	try entering the noun.

Before entering the solitary tree:
	say "[if player is in Grassland]You hook your arm around a low branch and hoist yourself up. From there its an easy climb to the top with the wide horizontal branches forming an rough ladder.[end if][if player is in Tree Crown]Climbing down easily, you move from one thick branch to the next until your feet rest on solid ground.". 

Instead of going south in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander south, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going east in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander east, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going west in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander west, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going southwest in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander southwest, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going southeast in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander southeast, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going northwest in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander southwest, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Grassland:
	say "You start to wander southeast, but without the tree as a signpost you would easily become lost in ever-shifting prairie. If you were lost, hope would never return to Eunice. Thankfully, you turn back.".

Section 2 - Tree Crown

The solitary tree is above the Grassland and below the Tree Crown. There is a yellow apple in the Tree Crown. The yellow apple is edible. The initial appearance is "You aren't sure what you are looking for, until you see it. A small yellow apple hangs on by a delicate twig which looks ready to snap in the wind at any moment.".
The description of the apple is "It is a small yellow apple. As you look closer, you notice shades of reds and browns and greens on the skin in a collection of all the colors of fall. Your mouth begins to water.".

Leaves are a backdrop in the Tree Crown. Understand "leaf", "branch", and "branches" as leaves. The description of leaves is "[if player carries the seeds]New green leaves are growing interspersed with the dying leaves of fall.[otherwise]A few leaves, colorful in their slow dying, hang on the dark tough branches."

The description of Tree Crown is "The wind blows strongly this high up and you grasp a branch for stability. [if player carries seeds]The new leaves create a haven from the wind at least. [otherwise]There are only a few leaves still holding on here and there.[end if]".

After eating apple:
	say "With full awareness of your hand moving toward your mouth, you appreciate the smell and colors of the fruit. Imagine what it took for this to get to your hands: sunshine, water, warmth, and time. You take a first bite and for a moment hold the tart sweet fruit in your mouth. As you chew, you notice it fully as if it were your first time ever eating an apple. Very slowly you chew, appreciating the change in texture and the nourishment. You continue until you finish the apple and feel completely sated.";
	if seeds are nowhere, now player carries seeds;
	now hammock is in Meadowland;
	say "A few brown seeds are all that is left. You keep them as a memory. [paragraph break] Look at the seeds again anytime you want to remember mindful eating".

Instead of going north in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going south in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going east in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going west in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going northwest in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going northeast in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going southwest in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".

Instead of going southeast in Tree Crown: say "You lurch forward and almost fall out of the tree! Luckily, your hold on the branches prevents you from going any farther that way.".


Chapter 16 - Quaking Bog

Quaking Bog has the description "[If toad is asleep]The air smells of mud and rotting plants. Flies buzz around your ears and eyes. All your energy to explore is gone, as if sucked away by one of the mosquitos you are trying to swat. You stand on the web of marsh plants. There is some green here, but it is only a sparse layer over deep, cold, dark waters.[line break]Nearby is a dented park sign, titled 'Quaking Bog Rules and Regulations'.[otherwise]The air smells of mud and both the growing and decaying plants. Instead of being stuck, you notice how the whole bog is bursting with life.[line break]Nearby is a dented park sign titled 'Quaking Bog Rules and Regulations".

Every turn when player is in the Quaking Bog:
	if toad is asleep, say "You hear a muffled 'ccrroOOAAAaakk' off to the east.".

Bog moss is scenery in the Quaking Bog. "The moss is springy yet thick. The ground quakes slightly with each movement. Who knows what treasures lie below the deep moss...". Understand "pool", "pools", "water", "mud" and "bog" as bog moss.

Nature is scenery in the Quaking bog. The description of nature is "You look around and notice that everywhere around you is full of living, growing things. Dragonflies and butterflies and plain flies swoop between moss and grasses."

A dented sign is scenery in the Quaking Bog. The dented sign has the description "Quaking Bog Rules and Regulations:[line break]- Swimming is allowed and impossible[line break]- Jumping is allowed and possible[line break]- Take time to Appreciate Nature[line break]- Do not insult any bog creature"  

Stuckin is a restricted scene. Stuckin begins when player is in Quaking bog for first time. Stuckin ends when player carries an iridescent fly.

Every turn during the Stuckin, say "You sink a little lower into the bog, feeling the cold water on your skin. What can you do, stuck here without Hope?" 

Understand "park sign", "rules" and "regulations" as dented sign.

Instead of jumping: 
	if player is in Quaking Bog:
		say "[if toad is asleep]You muster the energy to jump a little, and come down hard on the marsh moss and grasses. More cold water collects around you.[otherwise]You make a little jump and the ground rolls and shakes! It is amazing, but you stop quickly - afraid of falling through the moss trampoline.";
	otherwise:
		say "You take a little leap up into the air, and stay there for just a smidge longer than expected, then land back on your own two feet.".

[Creating SWIM action]
Understand "swim in [something]" as swimming in it. Swimming in it is an action applying to one thing. Check swimming in it: if the noun is not bog, say "Swimming is only allowed in the Quaking Bog." instead. 

Report swimming in it: say "[if toad is asleep]You lie down in the damp, waving your limbs in a vague approximation of swimming while the bog barely holds you above the deep pool. A few more inches of cold water collect around you. After trying this for a little while, you have gotten rather muddy and give up.[otherwise]You lie down on the bog grasses, waving your limbs in a vague approximation of swimming while the bog holds you above the deep pool. A few inches of water collect around you. After trying this for a little while, you have gotten rather muddy.[line break]Refreshing!".

Instead of going north in Quaking bog:
	say "The bog ends abruptly at the edge of a pinewood. The forbidding trees block your way."
	
Instead of going south in Quaking bog: say "The thick moss dissolves farther south into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going northwest in Quaking bog:
	say "The bog ends abruptly at the edge of a pinewood. The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going northeast in Quaking bog:
	say "The bog ends abruptly at the edge of a pinewood. The forbidding trees block your way.".
	
Instead of going southeast in Quaking bog:
	say "The thick moss dissolves farther southeast into a dark pool. There is no way farther.".

Section 1 - Appreciate Nature

[
Creating APPRECIATE NATURE action with the enter to get more text function
]

Understand "appreciate [something]" as appreciating it. Appreciating it is an action applying to one thing. 

Check appreciating it: if the noun is not nature, say "You look closely and seek to recognize the full worth of the [noun]." instead. 
	
Report appreciating it:
	let chosen iridescent fly be a random iridescent fly in Paraphernalia Limbo;
	if chosen iridescent fly is nothing:
		say "You look around and notice that everywhere around you is full of living, growing things. The air smells green and rich. [line break]A sparkle catches your eye. A single dew drop balances on the edge of a curved grass leaf. Slowly it grows in fullness, glinting like a little star. The weight pulls the thin grass down, down until it drops silently into the watery green at your feet. [paragraph break]You take a deep breath. Breathe in and feel the breath fill from your belly to your ribs to your collarbones. [line break]Exhale; the grass flutters from the wind of your breath. In that moment of stillness, a great kaleidoscope of butterflies flutters up and swoops away. [paragraph break]You feel happier, more relaxed, and ready to continue your exploration. [line break]You think, 'I will try practicing appreciating nature again the next time that I am outside.'";
	otherwise:
		move the chosen iridescent fly to the player;
		say "You look around and notice that everywhere around you is full of living, growing things. Dragonflies and butterflies and plain flies swoop between moss and grasses. [paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
		wait for any key;
		say "Long-legged shorebirds poke around in the mud. The air smells green and rich. A sparkle catches your eye. A single dew drop balances on the edge of a curved grass leaf. Slowly it grows in fullness, glinting like a little star. The weight pulls the thin grass down, down until it drops silently into the watery green at your feet.[paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
		wait for any key;
		say "You take a deep breath. Breathe in and feel the breath fill from your belly to your ribs to your collarbones. [line break]Exhale; the grass flutters from the wind of your breath. You feel happier, more relaxed, and ready to continue your exploration.[paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
		wait for any key;
		 say "At the conclusion of your appreciation, an iridescent fly lying nearby catches your eye. It is colorful and shimmering, vaguely like sugarcoated hard candy. [line break]Odd, but you keep it for later.".

[then need to write something for the player to eat the fly and what it would say.]

Instead of eating iridescent fly: say "not really your cup of tea, or choice of snack.".

Chapter 17 - Bog Heart

section 1 - set the room

[improve bog somehow once the scene is completed]

Bog Heart has the description "The ground quakes slightly with each footfall, in a pleasant undulating manner.  You are walking on water - or above it - on many layers of moss that have grown over to form a living raft on the surface of the bog. "

The lily is a supporter and scenery in the Bog Heart. "Looks like a comfortable bed, for a toad.". Understand "moss", "bed", "toad bed", "pillows", "lily pad", "lily pad", and "toad pillows" as lily.

Wetness is a backdrop in Bog Heart. The description is "A wetland with all kinds of plants.". Understand "marsh" and "bog" as wetness.

Instead of smelling the marsh, say "You inhal the smell of green growing things, brown decaying things and the underlying constant smell of water.".

The toad is an asleep person in Bog Heart. "[if asleep]A toad is sleeping in the moss, as if he was nestled among many overstuffed pillows. [otherwise]The large green toad is lounging on the moss, humming softly to himself." The description of the toad is "The toad is large and green and frowning. [if asleep]His protruding eyes are closed and he makes a loud 'ccrroOOAAAaakk' noise every so often. He is snoring![otherwise]He is looking at you with calm interest, like some bemused zoologist, curious to see what you will do next."

Every turn when player is in the Bog Heart:
	if toad is asleep, say "'ccrroOOAAAaakk'.".
	
Understand "frog", "sleeping frog", and "sleeping toad" as toad.

Instead of going north in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther north into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going northwest in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther north into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going northeast in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther north into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going south in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther south into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going southwest in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther north into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going southeast in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther north into a dark pool. There is no way farther."

Instead of going east in Bog Heart: say "The thick moss dissolves farther east into a dark pool. There is no way farther."


section 2 - Toad Waking and Toad Conversation Scene

Sphinx is a restricted scene. Sphinx begins when the waterwell is in Bog Heart. Sphinx ends when the player carries the house key.

Instead of kissing toad when toad is asleep: say "You place your lips on the toad's cool skin, in your best guess of where his cheek could be, and give a kiss. [paragraph break]The toad stirs. [line break]His right eye opens a fraction of a sixteenth of an inch, and closes again. He spits just the tiniest bit, and then indulges in a terrific snore.".
Instead of kissing toad when toad is awake: say "'No, thank you!' he scoots quickly out of the way of your approaching lips, 'I don't want to turn into some nasty prince.'".

Instead of showing something to toad when toad is asleep: say "The toad sleeps on."

Instead of giving iridescent fly to asleep person:
	now the second noun is awake;
	now the noun is in Paraphernalia Limbo;
	say "You hold the iridescent fly in front of you. With perfect instinct, and eyes still closed, the toad's sticky tongue shoots out and lifts the fly from your palm. [line break]The toad chews, snorts, and finally stirs. He fixes his large bulbous eyes on you.[paragraph break]'An iridescent fly is worth some advice,' the toad licks his lips. 'You can ask me about what treasures you would need to restore Eunice to glory...if you are into that sort of thing." 

Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject treasure:
	say "'I seek to free Hope from its cage and restore Eunice to its glory.' you proclaim, 'what treasures do I need?' [paragraph break]'Glad to see you aren't off to kill some terrible princess and romance a dragon horde, or whatever the kids do these days,' the toad replies. 'Five treasures are required to free Hope from its cage: a SONG of ORDER, a KEY of APPRECIATION, some SEEDS of MINDFULNESS, a GIFT of GRATITUDE, and a STONE of FLEXIBILITY.' he announces in a self-satisfied manner, snuggling his rump deeper into the moss.[if the house key is nowhere][paragraph break]'I can help you get that key...'".

Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject quest:
	say "'I have taken on the quest to free Hope from its cage!' you proclaim. [paragraph break]'Well, good for you. Five treasures are required to free Hope from its cage: a SONG of ORDER, a KEY of deep APPRECIATION, some SEEDS of MINDFULNESS, a GIFT of GRATITUDE, and a STONE of FLEXIBILITY.' he responds.[if the house key is nowhere][paragraph break]'Bet you would like to know how to get the key.'" 
	
Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject stone:
	say "'A stone?' he asks, as if he didn't hear you right, 'there aren't any stones in the bog.'"
	
Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject Eunice:
	say "'Can you tell me more about this place?' you inquire. [paragraph break]'Well, I don't know everything. I'm a toad not an encyclopedia.' he replies, 'but I'm not some spring tadpole either. I don't like to see Eunice without Hope, so maybe I sleep more than I should. But it looks like you are changing things. [if the house key is nowhere] I can tell you how to get one treasure that might come in handy.'"
	
Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject key:
	say "'About that key of appreciation,' you say, shifting your weight from one foot to the other, 'How would I find it?' [paragraph break]The toad actually smiles, 'You are so, so close; practically on top of it. If you answer my riddle, then I will tell you how to get the KEY of APPRECIATION.' [paragraph break]You try to clear your mind and prepare for his riddle.".

Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject hope:
		say "'How can Hope be caged anyway?' you ask.[paragraph break]The Toad closes his eye, remembering, 'It was slow at first. A dark cloud gathered. Gradually, laughter was frozen; appreciation slept; mindfulness had no roots; gratitude was left unwritten, and music left the garden.' Then as if he remembered you were there, he frowned again, 'Only the Troll really knows, besides haven't you heard of magical realism?'".
		
Instead of asking an awake toad about the subject riddle: 
	say "The toad looks off in the distance and recites this riddle as if in a trance:[paragraph break]'Without weapon or tool I can cut through stone,[line break]I have a form like stone of my own,[line break]Then heat things up and into the air I have flown.[line break]I am found everywhere, even inside you,[line break]Yet often when you try to hold me in your hands I slip right through. What am I?'[paragraph break]The toad then looks at you with eagerness. It is a hopeless eagerness, since Hope is lost in Eunice.".

Instead of giving an iridescent fly to an awake toad:
	now the noun is in Paraphernalia Limbo;
	say "You hold the iridescent fly in front of you. [line break]The toad's sticky tongue shoots out and lifts the fly from your palm. The toad chews and fixes his large bulbous eyes on you as if he can see you to your heart. [line break]'Thank you' he says." 


section 3 - Sphinx Scene toad riddle and answer 

After answering the toad that "water":
	now the waterwell is in Bog Heart;
	say "'The answer is water!' you jump up in excitement and feel the deep waters rolling below your feet. [paragraph break]'Correct,' the toad says. [line break]He shifts slightly and near his left forelimb you see a narrow deep well of crystal clear water, 'Search the water...'" 

Instead of searching the waterwell for the first time: say "You peer into the crystal clear water for a moment seeing your reflection staring curiously back at you. Then its gone and far below you think you see something down there, so you reach in. [line break]The water is cool against your hand. This is just the beginning."
	
Instead of searching the waterwell for the second time:
	say "Past the slime and the mud of the bog, past any worries and judgements about whether you are doing enough or playing the game well, you go. [line break]Something slimy flits by, maybe a fish?[paragraph break]You are now in the bog up to your elbow.".

Instead of searching the waterwell for third time:
	say "You crouch down to reach farther still. The water is still, like a deep calmness in your own core. Then the tips of your fingers brush against something solid.[paragraph break]You are now in the bog up to your shoulder.".

Instead of searching the waterwell for fourth time:
	now the player carries the house key;
	say "Straining, you stretch farther. Your face near the surface of the thick bog. Finally you grab something solid! Pulling it up to the surface, you see it is a heavy key. You keep the key for later.".

Instead of searching the waterwell for more than four times:
	say "You peer into the cool clear water and feel peaceful."


Chapter 18 - Front Porch

Section 1 - setting up the room

The front door is south of the Old House and north of the Front Porch. The front door is a closed door. It is lockable and locked. The house key unlocks the front door.

Front Porch has the description "It was always a humble porch, now looking only slightly worse for wear, and it has been swept recently."

The front door has the description "Now that you are on the porch, you realize just how large the wooden front door is, truly monumental." The initial appearance of the front door is "[if player is in Front Porch]There is a large front door to the old house on one side of the porch[otherwise if the player is in the Old House and front door is open]The front door is open, letting in rays of golden light.[otherwise if the player is in the Old House and front door is closed]The large front door of the old house is closed. You can tell it was made wide enough for a troll.".

There is a mailbox and a welcome mat in Front Porch. The mailbox is a closed openable container. The description of the mailbox is "[if mailbox is closed]It is a metal box with the word 'Mail' embossed on the front. It looks polished and clean, and a little out of place on the porch.[otherwise if mailbox is open and stone of flexibility is in mailbox]The mailbox doesn't look as dark now that the elf has made a little home. There are even a few postage stamp pictures on the walls.[otherwise if the mailbox is open]The mailbox is dark. You strain your neck to peer in farther."

The initial appearance of the mailbox is "A metal mailbox sits off to one side and a mat lies near the front door." 

Understand "check the mail" as a mistake ("Very kind of you, though it looks like the post-animal hasn't been here in quite some time. Feel free to open the mailbox if you like.").
	
Instead of taking the mailbox:
	say "It seems to be serving its intended purpose just where it is, thank you."

Rule for printing the name of the elf while listing contents of mailbox: say "[if stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]contented elf[otherwise]frustrated elf".

Rule for printing the name of the stone of flexibility while listing contents of mailbox: say "stone of flexibility, which now looks like a sofa bed,"

The description of the welcome mat is "Woven grasses form a square mat in front of the door. It does not say 'welcome'. It does not even give a very welcoming impression."

Instead of looking under the welcome mat:
	say "You find dust and dirt.".

Instead of taking the welcome mat:
	say "It seems to be serving its intended purpose just where it is, thank you."
	
Instead of going west in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Instead of going east in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Instead of going northwest in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Instead of going northeast in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Instead of going southwest in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Instead of going southeast in Front Porch: say "It would not be safe to leave the front porch in that direction."

Before going south in the Front Porch: say "You walk gingerly down the green vine stairs."
		
Section 2 - Elf Convo

Inside the mailbox is an elf. The elf is a woman. The description of the elf is "[if stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]The elf is snuggled into the stone of flexibility, which at the moment looks like a [one of]recliner[or]chase lounge[or]rocking chair[at random][otherwise]The elf is about five inches high and looks at you with an unyielding grumpiness."

After opening the mailbox, say "You pull open the front panel of the mailbox. A pair of beady eyes glare back at you from a tiny wrinkled face. The elf, for she has narrow pointy ears sticking up above a little green hat, screeches loudly: 'BAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!'".

Instead of asking the elf about the subject quest: say "[if the stone of flexibility is in mailbox]'You'll have to deal with the troll next,' she replies, point significantly towards the house, 'good luck on that one!' and the elf won't say anything else.[otherwise]'Oh, a quest, is it?' She stands rigid with her arms crossed, 'well, I have nothing to help you with. No treasures here.'"

Instead of asking the elf about the subject hope: say "[if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox] 'Maybe things won't always be as they are now, maybe things can change for the better.' she shrugs, 'if you can free Hope.'[otherwise]'Hope is gone, haven't the others told you? Nothing ever changes anyway, I've given up on Hope. Why do you care anyway?' The elf frowns, inflexible before you."

Instead of asking the elf about the subject treasure: say "[if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]'I would help if I could, truly. But I'm just a little elf living a quiet life in this cozy mailbox.' the elf replies.[otherwise]'I don't know anything about treasures, clearly. I'm an elf living in an empty mailbox!' She stamps her foot, 'a completely empty mailbox... with Hope gone I have nothing.'"

Instead of asking the elf about the subject stone: say "[if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]'It's pretty great!' she agrees, 'maybe someday I will go on a quest of my own to see those statue people and thank them. You wish her luck on her future quest.[otherwise]'What stone?' the elf asks, her expression an unvarying frown."

Instead of asking the elf about the subject Eunice: say "[if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox]'I don't get around Eunice much,' the elf admits, 'though before the Troll shut himself away, this was a happy place - when Hope was free.'[otherwise]'You want to know about Eunice?' the elf asks, though clearly it is a rhetorical question, 'it's dark, it's empty, and it's not going to change.' [paragraph break]'That seems a little severe', you respond. Surprisingly, she doesn't yell but just shrugs, 'I am not one to compromise. People have told me I need more flexibility, but where would I get that?'"

Instead of giving the stone of flexibility to the elf: move the stone of flexibility to the mailbox; say "The elf steps back to let you place the little stone inside the mailbox. She stands for a moment with hands on her hips, looking at it, and then with great effort she pushes it just slightly to the left. Now that it is in the perfect place, she sits on the stone of flexibility just like a bean bag chair. The elf is now grinning happily."

Before taking the stone of flexibility:
	if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox: 
		say "You couldn't break the elf's little heart like that.";
		stop the action.

Understand "unlock [something]" as unlocking it. Unlocking it is an action applying to one thing. Check unlocking it: 
	if the noun is not the front door, say "It is not unlock-able." instead.

Carry out unlocking it:
	if the player carries the house key:
		if the stone of flexibility is in the mailbox:
			say "You fit the KEY of APPRECIATION into the front door lock. It turns with a rusty squeak. [line break]You pause for a moment, before opening the door to fortify your resolve to continue north into the Old House.";
			now the front door is unlocked;
		otherwise: 
			say "[if mailbox is closed] You take out the house key to unlock the house door, when suddenly the front of the mailbox pops open. A little elf screeches loudly, 'EEEEEAAAAAHHH!' then, just as abruptly the mailbox slams shut again.[otherwise]The elf yells, again 'EEEEEAAAAAHHH!'[end if][paragraph break][if player carries the house key]You drop the house key in surprise. It thuds on the front porch floor.";
			now the front door is locked;
			now the house key is in the Front Porch;
	otherwise:
		say "You need to have the KEY of APPRECIATION."

After opening the front door: say "The door swings open.".	
	

Chapter 19 - Inside the house

Instead of going north in the Old House: say "The walls of the old house block your way."

Instead of going east in the Old House: say "The walls of the old house block your way."

Instead of going west in the Old House: say "The walls of the old house block your way."

Instead of going northeast in the Old House: say "The corners of the old house block your way."

Instead of going northwest in the Old House: say "The corners of the old house block your way."

Instead of going southwest in the Old House: say "The corners of the old house block your way."

Instead of going southeast in the Old House: say "The corners of the old house block your way."


Section 1 - Assemblies and Supporters

A chest is a kind of container. 
[does the always openable prevent the snake lock?]
A chest is always openable. A chest is usually fixed in place. A chest is usually closed. The specification of a chest is "Represents a container with a separately implemented lid; the lid is itself a supporter."

A lid is a kind of supporter. A lid is part of every chest. The specification of a lid is "A supporter attached to a chest, which can only support things when the chest is closed."

[(The "specification" of a kind is not really a property, and is used instead to describe the kind in the Index. So the text of these specifications is never found in the game.) Of course, this doesn't get us very far. We will also want the game to correctly interpret variations on "open the chest" and "close the lid", redirecting actions appropriately.]

Section 2 - Opening and closing

Before opening a lid which is part of a chest (called the item):
	try opening the item instead.

Before closing a lid which is part of a chest (called the item):
	try closing the item instead.

[below this makes it possible to take a little card off the chest, then open. But I want a heavy troll to block the player, until the troll is happy.]
Before opening a chest (called the box) when something is on a lid (called the obstruction) which is part of the box:
	repeat with item running through things on the obstruction:
		say "(first removing [the item])";
		try taking the item.

Instead of opening a chest when something is on a lid (called the item) which is part of the noun:
	say "You'd have to remove [the list of things on the item] from the lid first." instead.

Instead of looking under a lid which is part of a chest (called the item):
	try opening the item.


[We may also want to be able to deal with "put in" and "put on" appropriately, even if the player names the wrong part of the object:]

Section 3 - Insertion and Support

Before inserting something into a lid which is part of a chest (called the item):
	try inserting the noun into the item instead.

Before putting something on a chest when a lid (called the item) is part of the second noun:
	try putting the noun on the item instead.

[furthermore, we don't want the player to be able to put things on the lid while the chest is open:]

Before putting something on a lid which is part of an open chest (called the item):
	say "(first closing [the item])";
	try closing the item.

Instead of putting something on a lid which is part of an open chest (called the item):
	say "[The item] would need to be closed first."
	
Before inserting something into an open chest (called the item):
	if the noun is an Origami bird:
		try silently putting noun on the egg;
	otherwise:
		say "The [noun] wouldn't go any good there." instead.


[And then we may also want a couple of rules for describing our assembled object nicely:]

Section 4 - Description in Rooms

Instead of examining a closed chest when something is on a lid (called the top) which is part of the noun:
	say "[The noun] is closed, and there [is-are a list of things on the top] on top."

After printing the name of a chest (called the item) while listing contents of a room:
	if a lid (called the second item) which supports something is part of the item:
		say " (on which [is-are a list of things on the second item])";
		omit contents in listing.

[Now we are free to create entire treasure rooms at a single blow:]


Section 5 - setting up the room

The Old House is a room. The Old House has the description "[if troll is agitated]The whole house has the feeling of neglect and something more... as if the place were holding its breath.[otherwise if the troll is calm and cake is nowhere]The little house is bare but clean. The Troll is puttering around making himself at home again.[otherwise if troll is calm and cake is in the Old House]The house feels comfortable and homey. Everything is better with cake."

Before listing nondescript items of the Old House:
	if the front door is marked for listing:
		now the front door is not marked for listing;
		if the steamer trunk is marked for listing:
			now the steamer trunk is not marked for listing;
			if the snake is marked for listing:
				now the snake is not marked for listing.

The steamer trunk is a chest. The steamer trunk is nowhere. The steamer trunk contains a bird's nest and an egg. 

The description of steamer trunk is "It is large with brass fittings and a heavy lid.".
The egg is a supporter. The description of the egg is "The egg is cream colored and the size of a ball. The shell is dimpled slightly all over. Part of Hope's prison, the longer you look at it the colder you feel.".
The description of the bird's nest is "A nest of paper and ribbons might seem nice, but this is part of Hope's prison. It was built from starving gratitudes until they shriveled up and died. Though an inanimate object, it seethes with resentment.". Understand "birds nest" as bird's nest.
Instead of doing something other than examining to the bird's nest, say "You don't want to get too close to that tangle.".

Instead of attacking the egg, say "Violence won't free Hope.".

The steamer trunk's lid supports a snake. The snake is an animal. The description of the snake is "A coil of reptilian muscle, you shudder and decide not to disturb it. 'Bit intimidating,' the Troll admits, 'I'm much too afraid to do anything with him myself.'".

The Troll is a man in the Old House. The troll is agitated. The description of the Troll is "[if the troll is agitated]The troll is standing rock-like in the middle of the one room house. He is large and the house is rather little, so he takes up a lot of space. [paragraph break]He can feel your eyes on him, and... s l o w l y... turns ... his head .... toward you. [line break]'Got frzen whin Hofe traffd.' he hardly moves his lips as he talks. [line break]'Oh no,' your voice sounds weak and tiny in the little house. You don't have anything prepared for this. 'Has anything helped you in the past in similar situations?' you ask. [line break]The Troll looks around, thinking, his eyeballs the only thing that has free movement, 'Laughng...kno any gud jokes?[otherwise if troll is calm and cake is in the Old House]The troll leans against the wall with a handful of cake, and daintily takes a bite of cake now and then.[otherwise if troll is calm and cake is nowhere]The troll looks a hundred years younger. He is puttering around the old house and every once in a while laughs a little remembering your joke."


Instead of asking the Troll about the subject jokes:
	say "You remember a few silly jokes, and tell one to the Troll. '[one of]What did one wall say to the other wall? I'll meet you at the corner.'[or]What gets wetter the more it dries? A towel.'[or]Why do you go to bed every night? Because the bed won't come to you!'[or]Where do animals go when their tales fall off? A retail store.'[or]Why can't you hear a pterodactyl going to the bathroom? Because the P is silent.'[or]A wizard was driving down the street, what went wrong? He turned into a driveway!'[or]How do you make tissue dance? You put a little boogie in it!'[or]What did the 0 say to the 8? Nice belt.'[or]What bow can't be tied? A rainbow.'[at random][line break]The Troll's belly shakes and he makes a barking-burping noise. He is laughing![line break] He shakes himself vigorously and begins puttering around the old house.";
	now the troll is calm.
	
		
Baking is a scene. 
Baking begins when 
	location is the Old House and
	player carries the round tin and
	player carries the measuring cup and
	player carries the whisk and
	player carries the spatula and
	the troll is calm. 
	
Baking ends when Baking is happening for three turns.

When Baking begins:
		say "Things begin to look a little brighter in the old wooden house. The Troll makes a series of complicated taps on the wall and is able to open numerous little cupboards.[line break]'Now that I can move about again I feel like celebrating.' He talks at you from over his shoulder, 'Hope might actually be freed with you here, and I know what would be perfect for a little celebration!'[paragraph break]The Troll begins to take out ingredients from all sorts of hidden places: bright red berries, a crock of butter, dark chocolate, a bowl of flour, and a jar of honey.[line break]'Where did that cake tin go?' he wonders aloud.[line break]You take out the cake tin and put it on the table about to say something, when the Troll glances up, 'ah ha!', he says, and then butters the tin, 'to remove the cake easily,' he explains, 'now where did my measuring cup get to?'[line break]You take out the measuring cup and put it on the table about to say something, when the Troll glances up, 'ah ha!', he says, and begins to measure out all the ingredients needed. When everything is in he wipes his hands on his pants, 'now where is that whisk?'[line break] Once again, you take out the whisk and put it on the table about to say something, when the Troll glances up, 'ah ha!', he says, and begins to mix with an expert hand, 'Now, now, now, one last thing...the spatula...'[line break]You take out the spatula and put it on the table without saying a word. When the Troll happens to glance up, he says 'ah ha!' and takes the spatula in his hand. He uses it to transfer all the batter from the bowl to the baking tin. Then he puts the cake in a little oven hidden in a corner.[line break]In no time at all, the utensils and ingredients are cleared away, and a wonderful smell of butter and sugar fills the air.[line break]";
		now the round tin is nowhere;
		now the measuring cup is nowhere;
		now the spatula is nowhere;
		now the whisk is nowhere.

Every turn during Baking, say "The smells coming the hidden oven grow more and more delicious.".

When baking ends: 
	say "As you watch with your mouth watering, the Troll takes out a perfectly baked cake, removes it from the tin, and covers it in pale pink frosting.[line break]'Please, don't wait on ceremony,' the Troll graciously invites you toward the cake, and then proceeds to take a large handful of the dessert himself. It is only then that you notice something new has appeared from all of the Troll's puttering and opening of secret compartments.";
	now the cake is in the Old House;
	now the steamer trunk is in the Old House.


section 6 - Freeing Hope


Before putting anything on the egg:
	if the thing is an origami bird:
		say "You carefully take the folded paper bird, remembering some things you were grateful for, and place the little paper bird on top of the enormous egg. It balances, just a little lopsided. For the moment, nothing happens.";
	otherwise:
		say "A force stops your hand with a kind of repulsion." instead.

After putting the origami bird on the egg: say "Then the paper bird flutters and settles in to warm the egg. Slowly the egg begins to wobble, then shake. The paper bird flaps away through the window and out into Eunice.[paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
	wait for any key;
	say "A crack forms in the shell. The crack expands and spreads. [paragraph break]After what feels like hours, you can see a tiny beak poking through. As Hope breaks free of its prison, sunlight fills the house.[paragraph break]...[paragraph break]";
	wait for any key;
	say "The hatchling is a delicate thing with feathers. It makes a shrill chirp and shuffles its baby bird body. Slowly, it spreads its wings. Before your eyes it grows and grows. It flies across all of Eunice like a cloud, yet filling it with sunlight. Hope has returned to the land.";
	end the story finally saying "You have succeeded in returning Eunice to its glory! From the mountains and fields to the woods and marshes, Hope fills the land. It is now time to return to your own world. Thank you for your grit, appreciation, humor, mindfulness, flexibility, and gratitude.".
	


[
test to Inside house
]

Test me with "tend garden / south / take spatula / u / eat apple / d / w / w / take tin / w / today i am grateful for X, O, X / e / e / n / w / w / n / take measuring cup / n / nw / stretch / se / s / s / e / e / e / take whisk / e / appreciate nature / east / feed fly to toad / ask toad about riddle / answer water / search water / search water / search water / search water / w / w / w / plant seeds / n / open mailbox / give elf stone"



